`verdi storage backup` (#6069)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/howto/installation.rst

.. _how-to:installation:backup:

Backing up your data
============================

> The most convenient way to back up the data of a single AiiDA profile is to use

Reviewer: I think we already need to separate this in two parts:
* generic info
* storage backend specific

The generic stuff can mention the CLI and API commands to backup a profile, but should mention that the specifics, and whether it is even implemented, depends on the backend.

For storage backend specific stuff we could use tabs for example, like in the installation section, one tab for each storage backend in `aiida-core`. We can keep the `core.psql_dos` as the first one since that will be the most common case.

Reviewer: Note that the "Restore" section already uses tabs as well, so we just need to apply that here as well.

Author: thanks! updated accordingly

.. _how-to:installation:backup:

Backing up your data
============================

General information
-----------------

The most convenient way to back up the data of a single AiiDA profile is to use

.. code:: bash

    $ verdi --profile <profile_name> storage backup /path/to/destination

> This command is safe to use when AiiDA is running, it automatically manages a subfolder structure of previous backups, and new backups are done in an efficient way (using ``rsync`` hard-link functionality to the previous backup).

Reviewer: I guess this is true for the implementation of `core.psql_dos`, but I don't think we can state this in general. We should change this to say something like:
```
Whether it is safe to run the backup operation while AiiDA is running, depends on the specific storage backend used by the profile. Please check with the instructions of the storage backend. To err on the safe side, only perform a backup when the profile is not in use.
```

Author: I can add this caveat for now (and remove the same "safe" claim from the CLI docs), but I think we probably would want to make this command as safe to run as possible (even during e.g. a high-throughput run) also for the other storage backends.

Reviewer: > but I think we probably would want to make this command as safe to run as possible (even during e.g. a high-throughput run) also for the other storage backends.

Sure, we can do this for the storages that `aiida-core` ships, but mind that `verdi storage backup` can be used with _any_ storage, also those provided by plugins, and we cannot enforce that safety there.

The command backs up everything that's needed to restore the profile later:

* the AiiDA configuration file ``.aiida/config.json``, from which other profiles are removed (see ``verdi status`` for exact location);
* all the data of the backed up profile (which depends on the storage backend).

The specific procedure and whether it is even implemented depends on the storage backend.

Storage backend specific information
-----------------

> 

Reviewer: The docs build is failing because these underlines are too short. Please correct them and check that the build succeeds, or fix the problem.

Author: whoops! thanks, fixed.

.. _how-to:installation:backup:restore:

Restoring data from a backup
===========================

Restoring a backed up AiiDA profile requires:

* restoring the profile information in the ``.aiida/config.json`` based on the backed up ``config.json`` file (entry under the "profiles" key). Some information (e.g. the database parameters) might need to be updated.

* restoring the data of of the backed up profile according to the ``config.json`` entry.
  Like the backup procedure, this is dependent on the storage backend used by the profile.

The panels below provide instructions for storage backends provided by ``aiida-core``.
To determine what storage backend a profile uses, call ``verdi profile show``.

> To test if the restoration worked, run ``verdi profile list`` to verify that the profile is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test if the restoration worked, run ``verdi -p <profile-name> status`` to verify that AiiDA can successfully connect to the data storage.
```
